# Optimization-&-MachineLearning-for-Recommender-Systems
You will see how we can use a data-driven optimization technique to train a recommender optimization model to optimize customers recommendations.
We all face, on a daily basis, different alternatives, products, and services and essentially choices. In many cases, we are not sure about our choices. We sometimes ask friends, or read reviews to find help the best decision.  On the other side of the story, companies are trying to better understand our personal and consumption behavior so that they can better expose related products to us through adds or recommender tools. In my work, I developed a technique that can learn from past customers' preferences and choices to train an optimization model parameters that can later be used to predict what a customer like and dislike and rank potential products/services.

Based on customers' and items' attributes, we can use this model for predicting new customer preferences and ratings. This way, we recommend customers, the items of interests that match their characters, preferences and other attributes such as age, gender, budget, etc. of course without specifically asking why they liked an item more than others in the past. Then we can identify similar customers and then recommend products that are more attractable to them. 
The inverse optimization problem finds the unknown parameters of the recommendation model, which is basically the relationship between the attributes of the customers and the attributes of the products. Finding these parameters help us train a model that can be used for prediction purposes and ranking products.  

I will show you in a pdf file, how inverse optimization can work for recommender systems. Also, I will show you a machine learning technique called matrix factorization for recommendation. There is another file which shows exactly the differnece between IO and machine learning algorithms.
